# Vi-Le-Master-s-Thesis
Thesis Abstract: Scholars have studied the responsiveness model of social policy to public opinion for decades. Meanwhile, in political science, party ideologies are regarded as one of the determinants of policy outcomes. This research put forwards and tests a mediation model where party positions mediate the causal link between opinion-policy, with regards to environmental issues due to its rising saliency in political competition. Three hypotheses are therefore tested. They are H1: There is a direct effect between public attitudes and environmental policy, H2: There is an impact of public attitudes on party positions on environmental issues, and H3: There is an indirect effect between public attitudes and environmental policy, which is fully or partially mediated by party positions. Employing opinion data from the Environment Module of the International Social Survey Program (ISSP), party positions data from the Chapel Hill Expert Survey (CHES), and government spending on environmental protection from Eurostat for environmental policy, several models are fitted under the Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) framework. Results show strong and consistent effects of public opinion on party positions (accepting H2), while rejecting the other two. Moreover, statistical models also suggest that Eastern European states in general use a larger share of their budgets for environment protection activities when compared to their counterparts. The two findings together contribute to studies of party competition, party politics, as well public opinion – public policy.
